---
slug: 10-fit-mums-and-how-they-keep-fit
title: '10 FIT MUMS AND HOW THEY KEEP FIT'
date: null
image: null
intro: "10 FIT MUMS AND HOW THEY KEEP FIT\nby Loreen on 30/03/2014 in Womens health\nHaving fairly recently reinvented myself as a wellness and fitness professional, (but still a PR deep down) I thought it would be a cool thing to speak to a group of fantastic mothers I know and get them to talk about their fitness and post the article on mother’s day. How they got into keeping fit, why, who and what motivates them etc.\n\nWhat I managed to get was a collection of truly fantastic stories from ten fabulous women who represent a range of all you women out there, whether you are a mum or not.  Each one has a different reason for keeping fit and a totally different approach to how they achieve this.  This was the story for me. The fact that you can have the same goal but have different reasons for having that goal and therefore take a totally different approach to the next person.  Different journeys to the same destination, but you all get there in your own way.  \n\nThank you so much to the ladies who contributed to this.  I have truly enjoyed putting this together and hope you enjoy reading it too. Happy Mother’s Day to all the mums out there!\n\n \n\nSara Ali\nSara Ali\nSara Ali, 30+, Retail Consultant and mother to 11 year old daughter + 8 year old son\n\nLuckily I have always been very slim and didn’t need to keep fit, which is just as well as I couldn’t think of a worse way to spend my time than willingly putting myself through pain and sweating. When I had my first child, I wasn’t too bothered about losing the extra half a stone I had put on as I was probably too skinny before and I also knew I wanted to have another child so there was no point in getting a six pack just to undo all that effort and have a big tummy again!\n\nAfter I had my second child, I seemed to have put on more weight than previously and the weight just didn’t seem to come off as easy as it did with my first child. Finally I had empathy for what my friends and magazine covers were talking about.\n\n I knew was done in the baby-making department and was determined to shift the extra weight and get back into my skinny jeans but it didn’t happen for a while and it became a frustrating process.\n\n \n\nSara with her niece\nSara with her niece\nHospitality is a huge part of the Arab culture and when a woman gives birth, the custom is for her to have 40 days rest to recover from the trauma of childbirth. During this period, the family would get an extended round of visits from family and friends who would bring food, come and help with any chores and give any emotional help and support needed. \n\nA huge part of these visits involves eating the food that the visitors have brought (while they are still with you!) to show gratitude for their time and effort. As you can imagine, this means piling on a whole load of weight in the first couple of months of giving birth. I was having two breakfasts and two dinners at one stage!\n\n After the 40 days, there then tends to be a lot of invites to family type events with the idea being to get the mother and child back out and socialising which can also help prevent post-natal depression. I often just put on a nice pretty kaftan, convincing myself I was being a good Arab wife and mum when really it was just a way to hide the extra pounds and not bother do anything about it for as long as I could hide it under a swathe of fabric.\n\n \n\nIMG_2762\n\nWhen my son was a few years old, I decided to separate from my husband and I moved with the children to leafy Chiswick. This was life-changing in many ways. It was amazing watching people running by the river, looking like they were in a completely serene zone.\n\nI was also inspired by the many mums I saw running with their prams and thought, wow, I have no excuse not to get fit. Having watched my mum suffer years of ill health from not taking care of her wellbeing (using the fact that she’d had five kids as her reason to be overweight), and not liking the feeling of discomfort when I put my clothes on, I joined the riverside jogging herd and also joined a gym.\n\n \n\nAbs in the making...\nAbs in the making…\nI would go 3-4 times a week, spending an hour and half in the gym by splitting my time between cardio, light weights and stretching. As much as I enjoyed jogging by the river, I preferred using the cardio machines more with the simple reason being that I wanted to be able to track my progress. I needed to see numbers, how fast I’m going, how much I’m burning etc. I loved working out alone and found the time by myself a great way to relax and refocus.  Being a single mum and self-employed can be stressful and you can totally forget to make time for yourself.\n\nI also reduced my sugar intake and cut out a lot of the processed starches that is prevalent in my culture. It meant also cutting down how much coffee I drank which was hard as I love my caffeine.\n\n \n\n \n\nOne of the amazing mums I met, who is now a good friend, is a personal trainer and a shining example of holistic wellness.  She would take me to health food shops and introduce me to weird and wonderful things I’d never heard of or ever thought I would be eating. She truly motivates me to stay healthy as she is mum of three, runs her own business and still takes good care of herself.\n\n  \n\n \n\nAngela Cozier, 39, Nutritional adviser and mother to 15 year old daughter.\n\n \n\nAngela Cozier\nAngela Cozier\nI started working out 17 years ago mainly to keep healthy. After the birth of my daughter, the training aim then became one of weight loss to regain my figure. Although I trained regularly, going to aerobics classes etc, it’s not until almost four years ago when I did Shaun T’s Insanity that I finally lost most of my excess body weight. My husband has also suffered with colitis for many years and, along with our new keep-fit regime, I started the whole family on a clean eating programme.\n\nFor many years I was a Business Systems Analyst but felt like I needed a change. My journey in becoming fit and healthier through fitness and clean eating compelled me to share my new found knowledge with the world. I completed a diploma in Nutritional Therapy in 2013 and set up my own business as a Nutritional Adviser shortly after in the same year.\n\nI tend to train six days a week, especially if I’m following a programme (Insanity, P90x Chalean Extreme etc) and when I train al fresco, I do a mix of high intensity interval training, weights and stretching. I train fasted to allow for maximum fat burn and break my fast with a spread consisting of a large portion of protein and fresh vegetables.\n\nMy motivation for training is simply to stay healthy, especially to be healthy and be there for my family. It’s also so I can motivate others by being an example of the life I preach.\n\nAngela on holiday in 2012\nAngela on holiday in 2012\nI love training my legs as I can lift heavier weights during squats/lunges but I really don’t like working on my abs. Shaun T and Chalene Johnson inspire me with their approach to fitness. Chalene especially as she’s also a mum and business owner as well as being supremely fit!\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nLibia Phillips, 44, Teaching Assistant, language tutor and mother of 3 daughters and 2 sons, aged 7-24.  Also a grandmother!\n\n \n\nLibia Phillips\nLibia Phillip\nI joined the gym for the first time ever in my life in January this year just to tone up generally.  My husband bought me the membership as a Christmas gift as he knew I wanted to get fitter. I have always been slim and weighed around 48-50 kilos but when I had my twin boys 7 years ago, my weight shot up to 70 kilos!\n\nI managed to shed the excess 20 kilos I had gained just four months after having my boys by simply exercised in the house. Not with a fitness DVD or anything boring like that!  I would walk up and down the stairs several times. I started off with going up and down around 20 times, gradually increasing the number to 50, then 100 times. While sitting down watching TV, I would be doing leg raises and triceps dips as I found TV a total waste of time. I also love dancing, especially salsa and would try and go whenever possible.\n\nLuckily, I am also not a big fan of sugar and I have always eaten very healthily. I cook everything from scratch and rarely do ready meals.\n\nI am enjoying going to the gym now as I have used a personal trainer who has shown me how to get the most out of my sessions in the gym.  I love working on my legs but don’t like press ups or floor work.\n\n My husband is my inspiration. Rain, snow or sunshine, he goes out jogging. He didn’t  put any pressure on me to lose the baby weight but seeing him so dedicated to his fitness motivated me to also get fit. He has even helped his brother lose a lot of excess weight by encouraging him to take up jogging as well.\n\nLibia after she had her twins\nLibia after she had her twins\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nNatasha Foster, 39, Senior Desktop Analyst + martial arts instructor, mother to 19 year old daughter + 16 year old son\n\nNF3\nNatasha Foster\nI’ve always been active since my school days. After the birth of my second child, I needed an outlet and to do an activity for me.  I used to do Judo as a child and thought about doing it again but wanted to do something more athletic and involving kicking, probably because I liked watching martial arts films so much!  I took up Tang Soo Do as a new years resolution after being introduced to it by a friend and haven’t looked back since. I was never interested in going to the gym or aerobic type classes so this was a perfect alternative to spending hours each week in a gym or group class.\n\nI train 3-4 times a week, increasing it to 6-9 times a week when I’m preparing for an event such as tournament etc. My training includes swimming, running and martial arts. My favourite part of training is working on my legs and stomach as these are my strongest points.\n\nExercise is a huge part of my life. When I’m not able to train it really affects my mood. The only time I am happy not to train is when I go on holiday, although I love swimming on holiday too.\n\nMaster Duane Maynard, one of my Tang Soo Do instructors is a true inspiration.  He’s a machine! I admire his determination and huge achievements as a martial arts professional. My training partner Deanne is also an inspiration with her steely determination and stubbornness for achieving her goals. I am also surrounded by friends with amazing discipline and focus on getting the results they want in every area of their lives. This motivates to keep doing my best too. \n\nI have a naturally high metabolism and eat pretty much what I like. Having said that, I do eat a very balanced diet. I increase my calorie intake, especially protein and water intake, when training for an event.\n\nNF4\nNatasha is known for these kicks!\nNF2\nNatasha kicking butt\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n  \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nTatiana Mais, 38, PT and youth coach and mother to 15 year old boy + 3 year old girl\n\nTatiana Mais\nTatiana Mais \nMy introduction to exercise came via my grandfather’s girlfriend when I was thirteen. At that point, I was experiencing really painful menstrual pains and my grandfather’s girlfriend explained to me that exercising would help as it would improve me body’s circulation and help to ease the pain.\n\nI remember thinking the woman was crazy as she had me doing jumping jacks but I did it anyway and went to the leisure centre a few times. I didn’t really keep it up but a few years later I joined the local leisure centre and really loved step and aerobic classes. I have been keeping fit ever since and went on to qualify as a personal trainer.\n\n \n\n \n\nTM2I like to train around 3-4 times a week using Pilates and floor-based workouts. I prefer this to the high intensity interval training programmes as I haven’t found them to really work for me.  I love working on my lower body but I’m not keen on core work. I really admire Davina Mcall for her work in promoting fitness. I like the fact that she doesn’t appear to just be doing it for money and love the example she sets with all her charity work.\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nSari Mwanza, mid-40s. Teaching Assistant and mother to two boys aged 19 and 11.\n\nSari Mwanza\nSari Mwanza\n I joined the gym following a referral from the GP to help with my back pain and also to help me get off anti-depressants which I had been on for over 8 years. I went to the gym every day, training for 3 hours at a time and lost 20 kilos within 7 months.\n\n I love training and see it as part of my lifestyle. I love seeing the results of my hard work, constantly challenge myself and enjoy doing bootcamps, salsa and boxing along with working out in the gym. My favourite exercise is abs and floor work with weights. I’m not so keen on using the bike and spin classes! My constant motivation is the desire never to be a size 16-18 ever again.\n\nMy favourite part of my body is my legs as so many people tell me it looks amazing, which always makes me feel good. I don’t like my bingo wings much though! I work so hard on it and still it’s not as firm as I’d like to be. I am inspired by people like Jessica Ennis.\n\n Sari working her arms\n\nSM5\nSari Mwanza\nSari working out\nSari working out\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nTina Tran, 31, Part time nail technician, mother to 5 year old and 5 month old boys\n\nTina Tran in workout mode\nTina Tran in workout mode\nI started working out in my twenties mainly to keep fit. During my pregnancy, I kept up my fitness by going swimming. Just a few months after having my youngest son, I returned to the gym just to tone up as I had lost all the baby weight already.\n\n I train 3 times a week and love going to classes such as body pump and I am currently working with a personal trainer to improve my muscle tone and build up my legs.  I like working on my legs, bums and arms as those are the body parts I would like to change the most.\n\n I’m not a major fitness fanatic. I just like to keep in shape, especially recently as it feels like my body doesn’t burn off the calories the way it used to when I was younger. Luckily, having kids hasn’t changed my body much but I do want to build up my legs and bum and tone up my arms.\n\nI would love to look like Rhianna, one of the class instructors at my gym. She’s very slim like me but super toned all over. I am also inspired by lots of different fit people who I follow on Instagram.\n\nLuckily I can pretty much eat what I like and not put on much weight. I cook everything from scratch and I eat loads of fresh vegetables with different kinds of protein and rice. I don’t do ready meals or fried food but do love the occasional sweet treat.\n\nTT3\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nMichelle Lawrence, Administration Officer, mother to 11 year old boy\n\nMichelle Lawrence\nMichelle Lawrence\n I’ve always been into fitness from a young age.  I enjoy keeping myself fit.  I believe that it is always important that you take care of number one.  As a mother, I believe it is important for your child to see you active and respecting your mind body and soul.\n\n I tend to train five days a week, splitting my training between Tang Soo Do and the gym.  My favourite exercise – I love to sprint … I just love to sprint ! Sprinting provides me with a good cardiovascular workout, gets the heart pumping and the legs working!!  I do not actually have an exercise that I do not like.  When I’m focused and in a zone, I just get on and do what I need to do.  No pain, no gain right?!\n\nMichelle competing\nMichelle competing\n I do not actually have one particular person that I aspire to from a fitness perspective. I am currently following a number of fitness instructors on Facebook and my main reason for this is to become more knowledgeable in helping me get closer to my own long term fitness goal.  However from a karate perspective, I would have to say Gichin Funakoshi, “the father of karate” is a real inspiration.  Master Funakoshi’s struggle to refine and popularise the art of karate is a fine example of persevering and striving for what you believe in.\n\nI think I have a very balanced diet. I tend to have six small meals a day, consisting of protein, carbs and good fats. I also mainly drink water and herbal teas, rather than juices or fizzy drinks.\n\nML2\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\nRosemary Patten\nRosemary Patten\nRosemary Patten, 60+, Holistic business owner, mother to daughter aged 30+ \n\nMy first attempt at keeping fit was when I took up badminton in my 30s and I did it for about 3 years. I loved the game but eventually gave up as I just didn’t have the strength and competitive edge you need to win games. \n\nI then took up yoga and swimming which I liked much more as both are individual activities where the only competition is yourself. I am not a huge fan of aerobic type classes as I don’t really have the co-ordination you seem to need at some of these fast-paced classes and I just feel silly when I can’t keep up. I find swimming quite a peaceful activity, especially when there’s hardly anyone in the pool.\n\n I had to stop going, however as I couldn’t go on a regular basis due to the difficulty in juggling my part time work, being a wife and mother and the unpredictable working hours of my husband’s job.\n\n Around 12 years ago, with my daughter now all grown up and more of my own time to myself, I went back to doing yoga and swimming and have been going regularly since. I go to yoga twice a week and swimming once a week, depending on what client bookings, meetings or other commitments I have that week. I love the standing poses in yoga the best but I’m not a huge fan of core exercises as it’s my weakest area.\n\nRosemary, right, at yoga\nRosemary, right, at yoga\n I truly appreciate the value of exercise, especially as you get older. Diabetes, high blood pressure, impaired cognitive function and certain types of cancers are all more prevalent as you get older. Your body is also not as strong or toned as when you are younger and exercising is a great way to stay healthy, both physically and mentally.\n\nLinda and some of the ladies in my yoga class (who are a few years older than me!) are inspirational in how fit they are for their age. Some of them do weights in the gym as well as yoga and have incredibly fit and strong bodies. They can manage some of the more difficult moves in yoga due to their strength and flexibility. Another inspiration is my close friend who is 70 and has been playing badminton from since our children were really young. Although I stopped, she’s still playing and is as fit and brilliant at it as ever!\n\nGenerally, I don’t eat less than two hours before I exercise, so on the days I am going to work out, I eat my breakfast earlier than normal and then have a small snack after. I don’t eat anything else until my dinner which tends to be freshly prepared meats, fresh vegetables and not too much starches.\n\n \n\nLorenza Attard, 40+, Office Manager and mother to 15 year old boy\n\nLorenza competing for Mrs Malta\nLorenza competing for Mrs Malta\n It’s fair to say staying fit has always been a part of my life. I started dancing when I was 13 and worked as a professional dancer for eight years before stopping after the birth of my son.\n\n I currently train six times a week doing weight training, muay thai and Tang Soo Do. My favourite exercise is leg training but with a current shoulder injury, upper body work is my least favourite.  I follow a high protein, low carb diet and have to eat every two hours because of the sheer amount of energy I burn every day.  Training and dieting go hand in hand, you can’t have one without the other.\n\n Training is my life. I love the full contact aspect and explosive power involved in doing muay thai. I also love the traditional element to Tang Soo Do and the self defence techniques it teaches, especially learning how to use weapons. In the ten years I have been doing Tang Soo Do, the training involved in attaining the senior belts has taken me on some unforgettable journeys.  I am inspired by different people for various reasons. From a martial arts background, I feel Bruce Lee  is a true inspiration.  His agility, knowledge and determination to bring martial arts to the Western world are truly inspiring.   From a fitness point of view Andreia Brazier is someone I aspire to. I admire her dedication, mental strength and focus.\n\nLorenza at a tournament\nLorenza at a tournament\n             \n\nPOST NAVIGATION\n← Mind fuel for sailing through life\nTraining Philosophy with Elliott Charles →"
content: null
categories: null
layout: post

---

null